spec/Muldis_Object_Notation_Syntax_Python.md, before:

<a name="TOP"></a>

# NAME

Muldis Object Notation (MUON) - Source code and data interchange format

# VERSION

The fully-qualified name of this document is
`Muldis_Object_Notation https://muldis.com 0.400.0`.

# PART

This artifact is part 19 of 22 of the document
`Muldis_Object_Notation https://muldis.com 0.400.0`;
its part name is `Syntax_Python`.

# CONTENTS

- [SYNOPSIS](#SYNOPSIS)
- [DESCRIPTION](#DESCRIPTION)
- [SIMPLE DATA TYPE POSSREPS](#SIMPLE-DATA-TYPE-POSSREPS)
    - [Ignorance](#Ignorance)
    - [Boolean](#Boolean)
    - [Integer](#Integer)
    - [Fraction](#Fraction)
    - [Bits](#Bits)
    - [Blob](#Blob)
    - [Text / Attribute Name](#Text---Attribute-Name)
    - [Nesting / Attribute Name List](#Nesting---Attribute-Name-List)
- [COLLECTIVE DATA TYPE POSSREPS](#COLLECTIVE-DATA-TYPE-POSSREPS)
    - [Pair](#Pair)
    - [Lot](#Lot)
    - [Kit](#Kit)
- [AUTHOR](#AUTHOR)
- [LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT](#LICENSE-AND-COPYRIGHT)

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="SYNOPSIS"></a>

# SYNOPSIS

```
    ("Muldis_Object_Notation_Syntax",(["Python", "https://muldis.com", "0.400.0"],
        ("Muldis_Object_Notation_Model",(["Muldis_Data_Language", "https://muldis.com", "0.400.0"],
            ("Relation",[
                {"name" : "Jane Ives", "birth_date" : ("Calendar_Instant",{"y":1971,"m":11,"d":6}),
                    "phone_numbers" : ("Set",["+1.4045552995", "+1.7705557572"])},
                {"name" : "Layla Miller", "birth_date" : ("Calendar_Instant",{"y":1995,"m":8,"d":27}),
                    "phone_numbers" : ("Set",[])},
                {"name" : "岩倉 玲音", "birth_date" : ("Calendar_Instant",{"y":1984,"m":7,"d":6}),
                    "phone_numbers" : ("Set",["+81.9072391679"])},
            ])
        ))
    ))
```

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="DESCRIPTION"></a>

# DESCRIPTION

This document consists of multiple parts; for a directory to all of the
parts, see [Overview](Muldis_Object_Notation.md).

This part of the **Muldis Object Notation** document specifies the
canonical concrete Python hosted syntax of MUON,
which expresses a MUON artifact in terms of a native in-memory value or
object of the Python programming language,
version 3.12 (2023; or 3.7, 2018) or later,
as a non-cyclic data structure composed only using system-defined types.

The MUON `Syntax_Python` is derived from and maps with the MUON
[Syntax_Abstract](Muldis_Object_Notation_Syntax_Abstract.md); see that plus
[Semantics](Muldis_Object_Notation_Semantics.md) for further context.

The MUON Python hosted format is semi-lightweight and designed to support
interchange of source code and data between any 2 environments that do have
a common working memory and run the Python programming language, such as
because they collectively are part of a single process of a Python Virtual
Machine (PVM).  One typical use case is a Python library generic API that
accepts or returns structured data using a well-defined protocol such that
the library and its users require no common dependencies besides Python
standard library classes.  Another typical use case is the bridge format of
a Python library for generating or parsing MUON `Syntax_Plain_Text`.
The format is fairly easy for humans to read and write in terms of plain
Python source code.  It is fairly easy for machines to parse and generate.

The prescribed standard *syntax base name* of a *syntax-qualified artifact*
for a MUON Python hosted artifact is `Python`.

See also <https://python.org>.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="SIMPLE-DATA-TYPE-POSSREPS"></a>

# SIMPLE DATA TYPE POSSREPS

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="Ignorance"></a>

## Ignorance

An **Ignorance** artifact is any of the following:

* The only value of the Python singleton type `None`.

Not permitted for an **Ignorance** is any of the following,
to keep things more correct and simpler:

* The only value of the Python singleton type `NotImplemented`.

* The only value of the Python singleton type `Ellipsis`.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="Boolean"></a>

## Boolean

A **Boolean** artifact is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Pair_TA* such that its *SYS_this* is the *SYS_Text* value `Boolean`
and its *SYS_that* is any *SYS_Boolean*.

Not permitted for a **Boolean** is any of the following,
to keep things more correct and simpler:

* Any *SYS_Boolean*.
This is because that would be interpreted as an **Integer** artifact.

* Any value of any numeric type such that zero/one represents false/true.

* Any value of some other type that might represent a boolean.

A *SYS_Boolean* is any of the following:

* Any value of the Python type `bool`,
which correspond to the 2 constants `False` and `True`.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="Integer"></a>

## Integer

An **Integer** artifact is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Integer*.

A *SYS_Integer* is any of the following:

* Any value of the Python type `int`.

Not permitted for a *SYS_Integer* is any of the following,
to keep things more correct and simpler:

* Any value of any Python type that composes the Python abstract base class
`numbers.Integral` besides `int`.

* Any value of any character string type such that it represents a
sequence of digits or anything else resembles a numeric literal.
This is because that would be interpreted as a **Text** artifact.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="Fraction"></a>

## Fraction

A **Fraction** artifact is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Fraction*.

* Any *SYS_Pair_TA* such that its *SYS_this* is the *SYS_Text* value `Fraction`
and its *SYS_that* is any *SYS_Non_Qualified_Fraction*.

A *SYS_Non_Qualified_Fraction* is any of the following:

* Any *significand*.

* Any *SYS_Positional_Tuple_A* having exactly 1 element which
is the *significand*.

* Any *SYS_Positional_Tuple_A* having exactly 2 elements which in
ascending order are the *numerator* and *denominator*.

* Any *SYS_Positional_Tuple_A* having exactly 3 elements which in
ascending order are the *significand*, *radix*, and *exponent*.

* Any *SYS_Positional_Tuple_A* having exactly 4 elements which in
ascending order are the *numerator*, *denominator*, *radix*, and *exponent*.

A *significand* is any *SYS_Fraction* or any *SYS_Integer*.

A *numerator* is any *SYS_Integer*.

A *denominator* is any *SYS_Integer* which denotes a nonzero integer.

A *radix* is any *SYS_Integer* which denotes an integer that is at least 2.

An *exponent* is any *SYS_Integer*.

A *SYS_Fraction* is any of the following:

* Any value of any of the Python types
`float`, `decimal.Decimal`, `fractions.Fraction`
that represents a finite number or signed zero;
both signed zeroes are treated as the same plain zero.

Not permitted for a *SYS_Fraction* is any of the following,
to keep things more correct and simpler:

* Any value of any of the Python types
`float`, `decimal.Decimal`, `fractions.Fraction`
that represents an infinity or NaN.

* Any value of any Python type that composes the Python abstract base class
`numbers.Real` besides `float`, `decimal.Decimal`, `fractions.Fraction`.

* Any value of any character string type such that it represents a
sequence of digits or anything else resembles a numeric literal.
This is because that would typically be interpreted as a **Text** artifact.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="Bits"></a>

## Bits

A **Bits** artifact is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Pair_TA* such that its *SYS_this* is the *SYS_Text* value `Bits`
and its *SYS_that* is any *SYS_Blob*
such that every octet is in the set `0..1`.

Not permitted for a **Bits** is any of the following,
to prevent ambiguity and simplify things:

* Any *SYS_Blob*.
This is because that would be interpreted as a **Blob** artifact.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="Blob"></a>

## Blob

A **Blob** artifact is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Blob*.

A *SYS_Blob* is any of the following:

* Any value of the Python type `bytes`.

Not permitted for a **SYS_Blob** is any of the following,
to prevent ambiguity and simplify things:

* Any value of the Python type `bytearray`.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="Text---Attribute-Name"></a>

## Text / Attribute Name

A **Text** artifact is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Text*.

A *SYS_Text* is any of the following:

* Any value of the Python type `str`.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="Nesting---Attribute-Name-List"></a>

## Nesting / Attribute Name List

A **Nesting** artifact is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Pair_TA* such that its *SYS_this* is the *SYS_Text* value `Nesting`
and its *SYS_that* is any *SYS_Nesting*.

Not permitted for a **Nesting** is any of the following,
to prevent ambiguity and simplify things:

* Any *SYS_Array_T*.  This is because that would be interpreted as
a **Lot** artifact all of whose members are any **Text** artifacts.

A *SYS_Nesting* is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Positional_Tuple_A* such that each of its elements is any *SYS_Text*.

* Any *SYS_Array_T*.

* Any *SYS_Text*.

A *SYS_Array_T* is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Array_A* such that each of its elements is any *SYS_Text*.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="COLLECTIVE-DATA-TYPE-POSSREPS"></a>

# COLLECTIVE DATA TYPE POSSREPS

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="Pair"></a>

## Pair

A **Pair** artifact is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Pair_AA* such that its *SYS_this* is *this*
(any **Any** artifact except for any of the *SYS_Text* values
`Ignorance`, `Boolean`, `Integer`, `Fraction`, `Bits`, `Blob`, `Text`,
`Nesting`, `Pair`, `Lot_m`, `Lot_mm`, `Kit_a`, `Kit_na`)
and its *SYS_that* is *that* (any **Any** artifact).

* Any *SYS_Pair_TA* such that its *SYS_this* is the *SYS_Text* value `Pair`
and its *SYS_that* is
any *SYS_Pair_AA* such that its *SYS_this* is *this* (any **Any** artifact)
and its *SYS_that* is *that* (any **Any** artifact).

A *SYS_Pair_TA* is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Pair_AA* such that its *SYS_this* is any *SYS_Text*.

A *SYS_Pair_AA* is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Positional_Tuple_A* having exactly 2 elements
such that its first element is *SYS_this* and its second element is *SYS_that*.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="Lot"></a>

## Lot

A **Lot** artifact is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Non_Qualified_Lot_M*.

* Any *SYS_Pair_TA* such that its *SYS_this* is the *SYS_Text* value `Lot_m`
and its *SYS_that* is
any *SYS_Positional_Tuple_A* such that each of its elements in turn is *member*
(any **Any** artifact) and its corresponding *multiplicity* is 1.

* Any *SYS_Pair_TA* such that its *SYS_this* is the *SYS_Text* value `Lot_m`
and its *SYS_that* is any *SYS_Non_Qualified_Lot_M*.

* Any *SYS_Pair_TA* such that its *SYS_this* is the *SYS_Text* value `Lot_mm`
and its *SYS_that* is
any *SYS_Ordered_Dictionary_AA* such that each of its elements in turn is
*multiplied member* whose element key is *member* (any **Any** artifact)
and whose element value is *multiplicity*
(any **Any** artifact but conceptually a real number);
this format can express every possible **Lot**,
such that an explicit multiplicity is specified for each member as a number
rather than by repeating the member value for each instance.

A *SYS_Non_Qualified_Lot_M* is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Array_A* such that each of its elements in turn is *member*
(any **Any** artifact) and its corresponding *multiplicity* is 1;
this format can express every possible **Lot**,
such that each distinct member repeats per instance.

A *SYS_Array_A* is any of the following:

* Any value of the Python type `list`.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="Kit"></a>

## Kit

A **Kit** artifact is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Non_Qualified_Kit_NA*.

* Any *SYS_Pair_TA* such that its *SYS_this* is the *SYS_Text* value `Kit_a`
and its *SYS_that* is
any *SYS_Positional_Tuple_A* having at most 32 elements such that each of its elements
in turn is *attribute asset* (any **Any** artifact) and its corresponding
*attribute name* is the ordinal position of that element;
this format can express any **Kit** which has only normalized positional attributes
and which has 0..32 attributes,
so to specify 33 or more attributes, the general format must be used;
this format is more concise than the general format
and is equally concise with the other ordered-specific format.

* Any *SYS_Pair_TA* such that its *SYS_this* is the *SYS_Text* value `Kit_a`
and its *SYS_that* is
any *SYS_Array_A* having at most 32 elements such that each of its elements
in turn is *attribute asset* (any **Any** artifact) and its corresponding
*attribute name* is the ordinal position of that element;
this format can express any **Kit** which has only normalized positional attributes
and which has 0..32 attributes,
so to specify 33 or more attributes, the general format must be used;
this format is more concise than the general format
and is equally concise with the other ordered-specific format.

* Any *SYS_Pair_TA* such that its *SYS_this* is the *SYS_Text* value `Kit_na`
and its *SYS_that* is any *SYS_Non_Qualified_Kit_NA*.

A *SYS_Non_Qualified_Kit_NA* is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Ordered_Dictionary_AA* such that each of its elements in turn is
*attribute* whose element key is *attribute name* (any *SYS_Text*)
and whose element value is *attribute asset* (any **Any** artifact);
this format can express every possible **Kit**.

A *SYS_Ordered_Dictionary_AA* is any of the following:

* Any value of the Python type `dict`.

Note that the Python language itself only guarantees that the `dict` type
preserves the insertion order of elements starting
with version 3.7 (2018), so that represents the minimum required to support
MUON for the general case of a *SYS_Ordered_Dictionary_AA*.

Not permitted for a *SYS_Ordered_Dictionary_AA* is any of the following,
to prevent ambiguity and simplify things:

* Any value of any Python type that composes the Python abstract base class
`collections.abc.Mapping` besides `dict`.

A *SYS_Positional_Tuple_A* is any of the following:

* Any value of the Python type `tuple`.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="AUTHOR"></a>

# AUTHOR

Darren Duncan - darren@DarrenDuncan.net

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="LICENSE-AND-COPYRIGHT"></a>

# LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

This file is part of the formal specification named
**Muldis Object Notation** (**MUON**).

MUON is Copyright © 2002-2023, Muldis Data Systems, Inc.

See the LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT of [Overview](Muldis_Object_Notation.md) for details.

Commit message:

Rename "Fraction" possrep to "Rational"

spec/Muldis_Object_Notation_Syntax_Python.md, after:

<a name="TOP"></a>

# NAME

Muldis Object Notation (MUON) - Source code and data interchange format

# VERSION

The fully-qualified name of this document is
`Muldis_Object_Notation https://muldis.com 0.400.0`.

# PART

This artifact is part 19 of 22 of the document
`Muldis_Object_Notation https://muldis.com 0.400.0`;
its part name is `Syntax_Python`.

# CONTENTS

- [SYNOPSIS](#SYNOPSIS)
- [DESCRIPTION](#DESCRIPTION)
- [SIMPLE DATA TYPE POSSREPS](#SIMPLE-DATA-TYPE-POSSREPS)
    - [Ignorance](#Ignorance)
    - [Boolean](#Boolean)
    - [Integer](#Integer)
    - [Rational](#Rational)
    - [Bits](#Bits)
    - [Blob](#Blob)
    - [Text / Attribute Name](#Text---Attribute-Name)
    - [Nesting / Attribute Name List](#Nesting---Attribute-Name-List)
- [COLLECTIVE DATA TYPE POSSREPS](#COLLECTIVE-DATA-TYPE-POSSREPS)
    - [Pair](#Pair)
    - [Lot](#Lot)
    - [Kit](#Kit)
- [AUTHOR](#AUTHOR)
- [LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT](#LICENSE-AND-COPYRIGHT)

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="SYNOPSIS"></a>

# SYNOPSIS

```
    ("Muldis_Object_Notation_Syntax",(["Python", "https://muldis.com", "0.400.0"],
        ("Muldis_Object_Notation_Model",(["Muldis_Data_Language", "https://muldis.com", "0.400.0"],
            ("Relation",[
                {"name" : "Jane Ives", "birth_date" : ("Calendar_Instant",{"y":1971,"m":11,"d":6}),
                    "phone_numbers" : ("Set",["+1.4045552995", "+1.7705557572"])},
                {"name" : "Layla Miller", "birth_date" : ("Calendar_Instant",{"y":1995,"m":8,"d":27}),
                    "phone_numbers" : ("Set",[])},
                {"name" : "岩倉 玲音", "birth_date" : ("Calendar_Instant",{"y":1984,"m":7,"d":6}),
                    "phone_numbers" : ("Set",["+81.9072391679"])},
            ])
        ))
    ))
```

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="DESCRIPTION"></a>

# DESCRIPTION

This document consists of multiple parts; for a directory to all of the
parts, see [Overview](Muldis_Object_Notation.md).

This part of the **Muldis Object Notation** document specifies the
canonical concrete Python hosted syntax of MUON,
which expresses a MUON artifact in terms of a native in-memory value or
object of the Python programming language,
version 3.12 (2023; or 3.7, 2018) or later,
as a non-cyclic data structure composed only using system-defined types.

The MUON `Syntax_Python` is derived from and maps with the MUON
[Syntax_Abstract](Muldis_Object_Notation_Syntax_Abstract.md); see that plus
[Semantics](Muldis_Object_Notation_Semantics.md) for further context.

The MUON Python hosted format is semi-lightweight and designed to support
interchange of source code and data between any 2 environments that do have
a common working memory and run the Python programming language, such as
because they collectively are part of a single process of a Python Virtual
Machine (PVM).  One typical use case is a Python library generic API that
accepts or returns structured data using a well-defined protocol such that
the library and its users require no common dependencies besides Python
standard library classes.  Another typical use case is the bridge format of
a Python library for generating or parsing MUON `Syntax_Plain_Text`.
The format is fairly easy for humans to read and write in terms of plain
Python source code.  It is fairly easy for machines to parse and generate.

The prescribed standard *syntax base name* of a *syntax-qualified artifact*
for a MUON Python hosted artifact is `Python`.

See also <https://python.org>.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="SIMPLE-DATA-TYPE-POSSREPS"></a>

# SIMPLE DATA TYPE POSSREPS

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="Ignorance"></a>

## Ignorance

An **Ignorance** artifact is any of the following:

* The only value of the Python singleton type `None`.

Not permitted for an **Ignorance** is any of the following,
to keep things more correct and simpler:

* The only value of the Python singleton type `NotImplemented`.

* The only value of the Python singleton type `Ellipsis`.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="Boolean"></a>

## Boolean

A **Boolean** artifact is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Pair_TA* such that its *SYS_this* is the *SYS_Text* value `Boolean`
and its *SYS_that* is any *SYS_Boolean*.

Not permitted for a **Boolean** is any of the following,
to keep things more correct and simpler:

* Any *SYS_Boolean*.
This is because that would be interpreted as an **Integer** artifact.

* Any value of any numeric type such that zero/one represents false/true.

* Any value of some other type that might represent a boolean.

A *SYS_Boolean* is any of the following:

* Any value of the Python type `bool`,
which correspond to the 2 constants `False` and `True`.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="Integer"></a>

## Integer

An **Integer** artifact is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Integer*.

A *SYS_Integer* is any of the following:

* Any value of the Python type `int`.

Not permitted for a *SYS_Integer* is any of the following,
to keep things more correct and simpler:

* Any value of any Python type that composes the Python abstract base class
`numbers.Integral` besides `int`.

* Any value of any character string type such that it represents a
sequence of digits or anything else resembles a numeric literal.
This is because that would be interpreted as a **Text** artifact.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="Rational"></a>

## Rational

A **Rational** artifact is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Rational*.

* Any *SYS_Pair_TA* such that its *SYS_this* is the *SYS_Text* value `Rational`
and its *SYS_that* is any *SYS_Non_Qualified_Rational*.

A *SYS_Non_Qualified_Rational* is any of the following:

* Any *significand*.

* Any *SYS_Positional_Tuple_A* having exactly 1 element which
is the *significand*.

* Any *SYS_Positional_Tuple_A* having exactly 2 elements which in
ascending order are the *numerator* and *denominator*.

* Any *SYS_Positional_Tuple_A* having exactly 3 elements which in
ascending order are the *significand*, *radix*, and *exponent*.

* Any *SYS_Positional_Tuple_A* having exactly 4 elements which in
ascending order are the *numerator*, *denominator*, *radix*, and *exponent*.

A *significand* is any *SYS_Rational* or any *SYS_Integer*.

A *numerator* is any *SYS_Integer*.

A *denominator* is any *SYS_Integer* which denotes a nonzero integer.

A *radix* is any *SYS_Integer* which denotes an integer that is at least 2.

An *exponent* is any *SYS_Integer*.

A *SYS_Rational* is any of the following:

* Any value of any of the Python types
`float`, `decimal.Decimal`, `fractions.Fraction`
that represents a finite number or signed zero;
both signed zeroes are treated as the same plain zero.

Not permitted for a *SYS_Rational* is any of the following,
to keep things more correct and simpler:

* Any value of any of the Python types
`float`, `decimal.Decimal`, `fractions.Fraction`
that represents an infinity or NaN.

* Any value of any Python type that composes the Python abstract base class
`numbers.Real` besides `float`, `decimal.Decimal`, `fractions.Fraction`.

* Any value of any character string type such that it represents a
sequence of digits or anything else resembles a numeric literal.
This is because that would typically be interpreted as a **Text** artifact.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="Bits"></a>

## Bits

A **Bits** artifact is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Pair_TA* such that its *SYS_this* is the *SYS_Text* value `Bits`
and its *SYS_that* is any *SYS_Blob*
such that every octet is in the set `0..1`.

Not permitted for a **Bits** is any of the following,
to prevent ambiguity and simplify things:

* Any *SYS_Blob*.
This is because that would be interpreted as a **Blob** artifact.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="Blob"></a>

## Blob

A **Blob** artifact is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Blob*.

A *SYS_Blob* is any of the following:

* Any value of the Python type `bytes`.

Not permitted for a **SYS_Blob** is any of the following,
to prevent ambiguity and simplify things:

* Any value of the Python type `bytearray`.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="Text---Attribute-Name"></a>

## Text / Attribute Name

A **Text** artifact is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Text*.

A *SYS_Text* is any of the following:

* Any value of the Python type `str`.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="Nesting---Attribute-Name-List"></a>

## Nesting / Attribute Name List

A **Nesting** artifact is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Pair_TA* such that its *SYS_this* is the *SYS_Text* value `Nesting`
and its *SYS_that* is any *SYS_Nesting*.

Not permitted for a **Nesting** is any of the following,
to prevent ambiguity and simplify things:

* Any *SYS_Array_T*.  This is because that would be interpreted as
a **Lot** artifact all of whose members are any **Text** artifacts.

A *SYS_Nesting* is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Positional_Tuple_A* such that each of its elements is any *SYS_Text*.

* Any *SYS_Array_T*.

* Any *SYS_Text*.

A *SYS_Array_T* is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Array_A* such that each of its elements is any *SYS_Text*.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="COLLECTIVE-DATA-TYPE-POSSREPS"></a>

# COLLECTIVE DATA TYPE POSSREPS

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="Pair"></a>

## Pair

A **Pair** artifact is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Pair_AA* such that its *SYS_this* is *this*
(any **Any** artifact except for any of the *SYS_Text* values
`Ignorance`, `Boolean`, `Integer`, `Rational`, `Bits`, `Blob`, `Text`,
`Nesting`, `Pair`, `Lot_m`, `Lot_mm`, `Kit_a`, `Kit_na`)
and its *SYS_that* is *that* (any **Any** artifact).

* Any *SYS_Pair_TA* such that its *SYS_this* is the *SYS_Text* value `Pair`
and its *SYS_that* is
any *SYS_Pair_AA* such that its *SYS_this* is *this* (any **Any** artifact)
and its *SYS_that* is *that* (any **Any** artifact).

A *SYS_Pair_TA* is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Pair_AA* such that its *SYS_this* is any *SYS_Text*.

A *SYS_Pair_AA* is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Positional_Tuple_A* having exactly 2 elements
such that its first element is *SYS_this* and its second element is *SYS_that*.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="Lot"></a>

## Lot

A **Lot** artifact is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Non_Qualified_Lot_M*.

* Any *SYS_Pair_TA* such that its *SYS_this* is the *SYS_Text* value `Lot_m`
and its *SYS_that* is
any *SYS_Positional_Tuple_A* such that each of its elements in turn is *member*
(any **Any** artifact) and its corresponding *multiplicity* is 1.

* Any *SYS_Pair_TA* such that its *SYS_this* is the *SYS_Text* value `Lot_m`
and its *SYS_that* is any *SYS_Non_Qualified_Lot_M*.

* Any *SYS_Pair_TA* such that its *SYS_this* is the *SYS_Text* value `Lot_mm`
and its *SYS_that* is
any *SYS_Ordered_Dictionary_AA* such that each of its elements in turn is
*multiplied member* whose element key is *member* (any **Any** artifact)
and whose element value is *multiplicity*
(any **Any** artifact but conceptually a real number);
this format can express every possible **Lot**,
such that an explicit multiplicity is specified for each member as a number
rather than by repeating the member value for each instance.

A *SYS_Non_Qualified_Lot_M* is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Array_A* such that each of its elements in turn is *member*
(any **Any** artifact) and its corresponding *multiplicity* is 1;
this format can express every possible **Lot**,
such that each distinct member repeats per instance.

A *SYS_Array_A* is any of the following:

* Any value of the Python type `list`.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="Kit"></a>

## Kit

A **Kit** artifact is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Non_Qualified_Kit_NA*.

* Any *SYS_Pair_TA* such that its *SYS_this* is the *SYS_Text* value `Kit_a`
and its *SYS_that* is
any *SYS_Positional_Tuple_A* having at most 32 elements such that each of its elements
in turn is *attribute asset* (any **Any** artifact) and its corresponding
*attribute name* is the ordinal position of that element;
this format can express any **Kit** which has only normalized positional attributes
and which has 0..32 attributes,
so to specify 33 or more attributes, the general format must be used;
this format is more concise than the general format
and is equally concise with the other ordered-specific format.

* Any *SYS_Pair_TA* such that its *SYS_this* is the *SYS_Text* value `Kit_a`
and its *SYS_that* is
any *SYS_Array_A* having at most 32 elements such that each of its elements
in turn is *attribute asset* (any **Any** artifact) and its corresponding
*attribute name* is the ordinal position of that element;
this format can express any **Kit** which has only normalized positional attributes
and which has 0..32 attributes,
so to specify 33 or more attributes, the general format must be used;
this format is more concise than the general format
and is equally concise with the other ordered-specific format.

* Any *SYS_Pair_TA* such that its *SYS_this* is the *SYS_Text* value `Kit_na`
and its *SYS_that* is any *SYS_Non_Qualified_Kit_NA*.

A *SYS_Non_Qualified_Kit_NA* is any of the following:

* Any *SYS_Ordered_Dictionary_AA* such that each of its elements in turn is
*attribute* whose element key is *attribute name* (any *SYS_Text*)
and whose element value is *attribute asset* (any **Any** artifact);
this format can express every possible **Kit**.

A *SYS_Ordered_Dictionary_AA* is any of the following:

* Any value of the Python type `dict`.

Note that the Python language itself only guarantees that the `dict` type
preserves the insertion order of elements starting
with version 3.7 (2018), so that represents the minimum required to support
MUON for the general case of a *SYS_Ordered_Dictionary_AA*.

Not permitted for a *SYS_Ordered_Dictionary_AA* is any of the following,
to prevent ambiguity and simplify things:

* Any value of any Python type that composes the Python abstract base class
`collections.abc.Mapping` besides `dict`.

A *SYS_Positional_Tuple_A* is any of the following:

* Any value of the Python type `tuple`.

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="AUTHOR"></a>

# AUTHOR

Darren Duncan - darren@DarrenDuncan.net

[RETURN](#TOP)

<a name="LICENSE-AND-COPYRIGHT"></a>

# LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

This file is part of the formal specification named
**Muldis Object Notation** (**MUON**).

MUON is Copyright © 2002-2023, Muldis Data Systems, Inc.

See the LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT of [Overview](Muldis_Object_Notation.md) for details.
